Hello again you delightful God.
People in this video.
We're going to make n.p. sees suspicious of stuff.
We're going to add stealth to our stealth game.
So let's talk about how suspicion's going to work in heiss mice's.
First thing there's something called Suspicion it's going to be a variable of some kind.
Right.
This is going to go up every time the player is seen by any NPC.
And if it reaches a certain threshold the game is over.
However if you can't be seen I want suspicion to drop slowly.
And we should have some way of easily tweaking those values.
Furthermore we need a way of making sure suspicion can never be below zero.
There's a few different ways we could approach this.
The first we could do what we could make a game state right here and level one and then we could link
to the go through a signal and go from there.
I really want to do it that way for a couple of reasons.
One having something called Level 1 with a script on it is going to cause us problems later.
I might want to level two three four maybe tutorial level maybe a little 53 whatever.
Do I really want to keep putting this script on each one.
I can but maybe I don't.
Secondly if we go to the gooey scene and we look at the texture progress everything we need is actually
already in this gooey element.
Instead of updating the gooey element from somewhere else why don't we have the gooey element be in
charge of the thing it's measuring.
Why don't we put suspicion in the suspicion meter first thing Monday by the way I want to rename texture
progress to suspicion.
Because that feels good.
I also would rather use a group than a signal.
This feels counterintuitive.
Having a group of one but it means that it doesn't matter where this is or what's seen with it.
I don't have to reconnect every scene I just have to have it's own group so let's put suspicion meter
in a group.
Somebody clique suspicion meter node groups and add it in to suspicion meter.
Right exactly as I've written there because it's easier.
And there it is with the same capitalization now.
Anything that calls suspicion meter will affect this.
If they're in the same scene.
So far so good.
Next thing I do I'm going to add a brand new script I put it right on the suspicion meter itself.
So the actual gooey element that's measuring suspicion is the one that's actually applying it.
So let's add a new script and I'd put it in the strips folder.
And Nicole a suspicion meter.
And it's good to go.
So what do we need in here.
Well first me to do is to close a bunch of scenes we're not using.
There we go.
We did a couple of variables the first me a variable called a suspicion this I'm on a set as 0 4 now.
I don't need a max suspicion and I'll tell you why.
If we look at the Such progress we look at max value of mouse over it the description says range is
clamped.
What that means is this can never go above maximum value.
So we already have a max value that we cannot go above.
Awesome.
There are a couple of other things I do want though I want a variable called Suspicion step.
Listen to one fanelle.
What is this list but then the comment.
This is how much suspicion goes up every time we're seeing one another variable and I want this to be
suspicion to drop off.
I want this to be less than the suspicious steps.
For now I put zero point to five.
Feels like a nice low number and that's going to be how fast suspicion falls.
I can also put these export variables which might make some sense rise up of them like this so that
if we go back into this goofy element we can then find it shot.
We can do it this way.
Let's put them in there a couple of different ways we could do this.
We could put these up on the player for examples expert variable and then on ready we can transmit the
missed signals before now.
Let's keep this nice and simple.
It's just going to be in the place that is going to affect it.
Okay so let's start with what happens when the player seen a function called Player seen what happens
when a player seen then the suspicion is going to go up so plus equals by the suspicious step.
In other words whenever this function is called raise suspicion by this.
I say that's correct.
One more thing I need to change the display right.
A suspicion is not the same as value.
I could make it the same value but suspicion's legionaries So when the player is seen as do value which
is the built in value right here.
Value equals suspicion.
Let's make that work.
If we go to scraps we just need to find player detection.
All we need to do is put the connection in here.
Why just here.
Because all non player characters are either using player detection script or a script that is derived
from it so if we change it here they will all have access to it right here.
If player is an F over tolerance and player is in line of sight the Tortuga read and will do get tree
call group and will group we calling we are calling a suspicion meter and were calling a function and
that function is play a scene.
If I've done this correctly that value should now go up.
So let's go into game and walk into the nearest piece of light and the value will go up.
Now the value isn't dropping yet but that's okay.
I'm not worry about what happens if it's two fold because it can't go above the maximum value.
So now let's go back into our suspicion meter script let's put in this drop off.
I do this every frame so that's neat.
I want two lines between functions function.
This is going be on the process.
Why process and not Process Physics because we only use physics which is his process what happens every
frame suspicion minus equal suspicion goes down by suspicion drop off.
And that should work fine except what will happens.
A Pressplay.
Make a nice big screen here I am walking in the dark.
La la la la la.
Walk into the light and there's a gap.
It takes ages for this to go up.
And it also doesn't seem to be dropping.
Why is it dropping.
Two reasons.
One I'm not dissing the value so let's move value because of some suspicion into process Delta.
But what was that gap about.
Well let's print suspicion now print suspicion in processo every frame or get a new print out.
Let's repeat what I just said here I am walking in the dark.
Look at the values were already at minus 70.
It takes ages for it to catch up right and then it drops.
We need a way of making sure that suspicion can never be below zero which is much ality.
I would like you to stop negative suspicion there's no such thing as negative suspicion Heise mice's
very suspicious game.
Now there's a few different ways you could do this.
Suppose the video find the one that works for you.
And when you come back I'll show you my solution.
And welcome back.
Couple of ways you could do this.
Probably more than a couple.
The one that comes to mind first is going to be a condition right someone some use and iffley.
So I could go if suspicion is what I mean greater than zero.
Then do that.
However I don't really want to be running a loop every frame.
Try to avoid what we call hot loops.
This won't make too much of a difference in game fact.
I can run this and show you it'll work just fine.
But if you get too many of these going slow start slamming the code down because running conditions
every single friend doesn't need to look it drops it drops it drops it drops it drops back into the
torch and it should immediately go up again so that's working great.
What if we don't want to use an IF condition we can use clamp.
So after suspicion equals drop off or minus equal drop off let's do suspicion equals clamp and we've
got to clamp for right.
This means you can never be outside of these values.
OK so what do we compete with clamping suspicion.
The minimum value is zero and the maximum is well it's whatever we've said here right.
So max value Max underscored value.
I don't need to define that as a variable because built in.
Come back Max value.
I don't need to put maximum value in a variable because it's already there.
Realistically I could take out suspicion and just call it value.
I'm leaving that in because that feels a lot more readable than value minus equal suspicion drop off
if someone comes into the script later they should see how this works.
Let's take a look.
And we should say exactly the same behaviour is the flip.
But we're not running an extra condition in there so suspicion goes up and suspicion goes down.
But it shouldn't go below zero and we know it doesn't go below zero because I leave it a few seconds
and then walk into the light and immediately goes up again.
All right.
One more thing I want to do.
I'm a put in a new IF condition on placing.
If.
Suspicion is the same as max value.
Y equals equals and not greater than because Max value is clapt.
You cannot have suspicion higher than max value.
Right it's impossible.
So what greater than it will never happen.
Eagles Eagles rather than eagles.
Because remember I'm checking a value.
Am not setting value.
So if that happens end game to make a function higgle end game.
We don't currently have an end game screen so long to do this in a really abrupt way for now and we
can fix it later so get tree.
Quit all that's going to do is just drop us out of the gate.
So let's press play and see how that works.
Walk over into the torch.
Oh no I can be seen unlike a deer in the headlights and it's quits really abrupt.
We are going to have to fix that but for now that's basic functionality and that means we now have stealth
in our stealth game.
Which brings us to the end of the video in this video we've looked at how to use tecture progress as
game logic.
So using the googie as central game logic rather than something to plug into your game we've also added
stealth to a stealth game and looked at how to quit the game.
So excellent work and I'll see you in the next video.